This directory contains input files and sample output for calculations that are described in the paper:

The Dynamics of the India-Eurasia collision: Faulted viscous continuum models constrained by high-resolution
Sentinel-1 InSAR and GNSS velocities

by: Jin Fang, Gregory A Houseman, Tim J Wright, Lynn A Evans, Tim J Craig, John R Elliott and Andy Hooper

Journal of Geophysics (first submitted April 2023)

If you have successfuly installed executables for basil and sybil, you can apply those programs to
the files in this directory to:

1. reproduce a specific solution by e.g. the command: basil JF1.1
2. confirm that the solution has been obtained correctly by e.g. sybil -i Fig1.1.log
   and confirm that the solution shown on the screen is the same as shown in Fig1.1.png
3. use sybil in interactive mode to examine other aspects of the solution.

Before step 1 above, within this directory make the following two sub-directories using: 
mkdir FD.sols ; mkdir FD.out
to receive basil output files, and use the basil and sybil commands within this directory.
The files JF?.? are referred to as the basil input files, and the numbers in the name 
reference the specific solutions described in the corresponding sections of the paper.
The input file specifies parameter values, program settings, and boundary conditions used
in a calculation.

These input files direct basil to use:

tibet.xyz which is a low-resolution representation of the Asian topography field used to calculate 
an approximate representation of the gravitational potential energy, and

TB.poly which contains the designation of the external boundary and the internal structures which
are used to define domain boundaries with different viscosity and / or faults on which relative
displacements can occur.

To see a graphical representation of these input files use: sybil -i topomesh.log (after step 1 above)

The two (initially empty) directories FD.sols and FD.out are used to accept basil output.  The output
that comes to the screen provides only a summary of the calculation; its main purpose is to provide
confirmation of exactly what was done in a basil calculation.

The complete solution for a basil calculation is located in FD.sols using the same name as the input
file in this directory.  The solution is stored in binary form produced by fortran unformatted write.
The principal method of extracting specific data relies on sybil (screen output) or sybilps (postscript)
to produce graphical output or ordered lists of formatted numbers for specific aspects of the solution
that can be used for example in a gmt script.

Basil calculations and output variables are all in dimensionless form.  Refer to the supplementary
information that accompanies the paper for a summary of how the scaling parameters for key variables
are specified or determined.

In case of errors / problems that can be pinned on basil or sybil, we may be able to advise or fix, 
but if you want to run these calculations on Windows or Mac we might need your advice on how to get 
sybil working, as we are specifially set up for running on linux and neither MacOS nor Windows seem
particularly well adapted to work with the X windows environment.  There is also a known issue with
postscript produced by sybilps not properly displaying colors on MacOS and we would be interested to 
understand why that is.  The workaround is to convert the ps to a pdf using ps2pdf.


