This directory contains a selection of input files and sample output for calculations that are 
described in the paper:

Finite Strain Calculations of Continental Deformation 1. Method and General Results for Convergent Zones

by: Gregory Houseman and Philip England

Journal of Geophysical Resaerch, Vol 91, 3651-3653, 1986.

If you have successfuly installed executables for basil and sybil, you can apply those programs to
the files in this directory to:

1. reproduce selected solutions by e.g. the command: basil INn3A1
2. compute the solutions for the input files INn1A0, INn3A0, INn10A0, then run sybil -i Fig3_edzz.log
   to display maps of vertical strain rate that correspond to frames j,k,l of Figure 3 in the paper.
3. compute the solutions for the input files INn3A0, INn3A1, INn10A1, then run sybil -i Fig4n3.log
   to display maps of the crustal thickness that correspond to frames a,d,g of Figure 4 in the paper.
4. confirm that the solutions shown on the screen match the two png files provided.
5. copy and modify any of the input files to run other cases shown in the paper, and use sybil
   in interactive mode to examine other aspects of the solutions.

Before step 1 above, within this directory make the following two sub-directories using: 
mkdir FD.sols ; mkdir FD.out
to receive basil output files, and use the basil and sybil commands within this directory.
The files INn?A? are referred to as the basil input files, and the numbers in the name 
reference the specific values of parameters n and Ar as defined in the paper.
The input file specifies parameter values, program settings, and boundary conditions used
in a calculation.

These relatively simple calculations use a regular triangular mesh in a square domain.
The mesh is advected with the solution and is progressively deformed, so the integration in
time is intrinsically limited by the deformation of the triangles.  The deformation is fairly
extreme in the case n=10 Ar=0 and it was necessary to tweak the mesh settings NX and NY to get the 
calculation as far as the target time of t = 0.24 for this case. With Ar > 0 for the calculations
in Fig 4, it was possible to run the 3 calculations to the target time of t = 0.5 because
the gravitational forces acting on thickened crust inhibits the extreme mesh deformation
near the corner of the indenter.  The deformed triangular mesh at the end of the n3A1 and 
n10A0 calculations is shown in the two png files.

basil is capable of remeshing during a calculation but remeshing was not used in these examples.
An example of how to run a calculat with remeshing will be provided in another example directory.

The two (initially empty) directories FD.sols and FD.out are used to accept basil output.  The output
that comes to the screen provides only a summary of the calculation; its main purpose is to provide
confirmation of exactly what was done in a basil calculation.

The complete solution for a basil calculation is located in FD.sols using the same name as the input
file in this directory.  The solution is stored in binary form produced by fortran unformatted write.
Full solutions at selected time levels are saved based on the TSAVe parameter defined in the input file.
The principal method of extracting specific data relies on sybil (screen output) or sybilps (postscript)
to produce graphical output or ordered lists of formatted numbers for specific aspects of the solution
that can be used for example in a gmt script.

Basil calculations and output variables are all in dimensionless form.  Refer to the 
paper for a summary of how the scaling parameters for key variables are specified or determined.

In case of errors / problems that can be pinned on basil or sybil, we may be able to advise or fix, 
but if you want to run these calculations on Windows or Mac we might need your advice on how to get 
sybil working, as we are specifially set up for running on linux and neither MacOS nor Windows seem
particularly well adapted to work with the X windows environment.  There is also a known issue with
postscript produced by sybilps not properly displaying colors on MacOS and we would be interested to 
understand why that is.  The workaround is to convert the ps to a pdf using ps2pdf.


